= SoundexFind

A drop=in replacement ActiveRecord finder for auto-complete that returns phonetically similar
results, such as 'Jeffery', 'Jefry', and 'Geoffry'. Use with any autocompleter 
or search form when phonetic matches or misspellings should be included.

Uses ActiveRecord with_scope, and all ActiveRecord find options should work.

Compatible with paginating_find, and hopefully most other well-behaved finder
plugins.  If you find issues, please report them.

== Description

SoundexFind implements a modified Soundex algorithm suitable for auto-complete
or search functions.  The default options optimize
for misspelling or ambiguous spelling in a wide variety of situations.

The options will also support a true Soundex, as well as many other configurations.

The original soundex algorithm encodes text as the first letter, followed by
digits (1-6), to a maximum of 3 digits, for a total of 4 characters in the encoded sequence.  

To learn more about soundex: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soundex

== Usage

    soundex_find(find_params, :soundex => search_string)
    

== Examples

    item_list = Item.soundex_find :all,
                                    :conditions => {:city => "Seattle"},
                                    :include => [:images],
                                    :soundex => "jefry"


== Setup

=== Install plugin
    
    script/plugin install git://github.com/waltjones/soundex_find.git

=== Create and run migration for soundex columns

Each column enabled for soundex search needs a companion column with _soundex suffix.

    add_column :items, :column_name_soundex, :string, 
        :default => "", :limit => 20, :null => false


=== Add to models
Add soundex_columns to your model.

   soundex_columns([:column_name], options)

=== Options for soundex_columns:

    :start => (true/false) default = false
        If true, match start at beginning of string.
    :end => (true/false) default = false
        If true, match continues until end of string.
        If :start and :end are both true, forces match of entire string.
    :limit => (integer) default = nil
        Limits the total number of soundex digits used in the match.
    :strict => (true/false) default = false
        Requires first character to be an exact match, regardless of soundex match.

=== Restart your ruby server

=== Either use migration or rake task to update soundex columns
A rake task is a good idea since you will want to bulk update your soundex columns
if you change :limit or :strict init options later.

    Item.find(:all).each { |p| 
        p.update_attribute :column_name_soundex, Item.soundex(p.column_name) 
    }

        
== Examples
        
Default options attempt to match the compare string at any position in the reference 
string, for the total length of the compare string.

    soundex_columns( :column_1 )

    # example encoding
    Item.soundex("supernatural") => 2165364
    
    # example find
    items => ["sue", "soup", "super", "supernatural"]
    Item.soundex_find("zoop") => ["soup", "super", "supernatural"]
    Item.soundex_find("pare") => ["super", "supernatural"]
    

True Soundex requires exact first letter, and matches from the beginning 
to the end of the string or three soundex digits past the ifrst letter,
whichever comes first.

    soundex_columns( :column_1, 
            {:start => true, :end => true, :limit => 3, :strict => true} )

    # example encoding
    Item.soundex("supernatural") => S165

    # example find
    items => ["sue", "soup", "super", "supernatural"]
    Item.soundex_find("zoop") => []
    Item.soundex_find("soopr") => ["super"]
    
Useful options for auto-complete are exact first letter, and any length
of completion for the remainder of the string.

    soundex_columns( :column_1, 
            {:start => true, :strict => true} )
            
    # example encoding
    Item.soundex("supernatural") => S165364

    # example find
    items => ["sue", "soup", "super", "supernatural"]
    Item.soundex_find("zoop") => []
    Item.soundex_find("soap") => ["soup", "super", "supernatural"]
    

== To do:
  #TODO: support multiple columns, currently only one column per model supported
  #TODO: Alternate language and charsets.  Currently optimized for English.


== More about soundex:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soundex


== Credits:

SoundexFind was created by {Walt Gordon Jones}[mailto:waltjones@gmail.com]

Copyright (c) 2009 Walt Gordon Jones, released under the MIT license.


